If you want serious results out of your
body, there is absolutely no getting
away from heavy.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a lot of unique perspectives. Today I'm
going to be exposing Beachbody. So,
Beachbody is a brand that had a bunch of
subbrands and some of you have heard of
this. Some of you probably haven't heard
of it and I think they've rebranded as
of recently. So, if you but if you look
for it, you'll you'll definitely find
what I'm talking about. So, what this
company does is it makes these video
programs that used to come on like DVDs.
This was like almost before streaming or
I guess it was before anybody had any
decent amount of content on like YouTube
or there were any subscriptionbased
programs that you could buy access to.
This is before all that. Some of their
brands were P90X,
Insanity, Body Beast, and there might
have been a couple others. If you've
seen these, you you should fall over
laughing because uh for the most part,
what what these were were you put it in
your DVD player, which no one even has
anymore, and you watch at home and it
tells you to do exercises in your living
room. Now, these exercises are body
weight from the floor. So, air squats,
push-ups,
sit-ups, jumping jacks, calisthenics,
and the the each session, I think P90X
was called P90X cuz it was 90 minutes.
90 minutes of doing push-ups, sit-ups,
jumping jacks, running in place.
Everybody looks real smart when they run
in place. I I I I don't know if I really
need to belabor this, but the idea that
you're going to get something out of
calisthenics is okay if you're an
elderly deconditioned person. But anyone
who's relatively healthy, relatively
ambulatory, and can just walk down the
street, this is like trying to get a tan
with candles. Like, this is
You're not you're not going to get any
meaningful effect. And there there were
so many people who
bought into the marketing. They believed
the hype. Wow, I just need to get this
DVD program. And and now now they
shifted to streaming, which is what
everybody else is doing. And lots of
different companies have streaming
content for physical fitness.
But the good news is many of these other
streaming programs actually involve real
exercises with meaningful weights that
will actually trigger a response. So the
moral of the story is if you're going to
pick a fitness program to follow, the
one I follow is the Westside Barbell X3
Training Academy. For obvious reasons,
you know, I had a hand in developing it.
gives me incredible results, gives all
the professional athletes
incredible results. But you don't need
to go with that one. There's there's
lots of them out there. Uh and it I mean
like everything I'm doing is variable
resistancebased. Some other people are
going to want something different. I
don't know why. Probably because they're
confused. But ultimately, just don't
pick a program that is based on
calisthenics. you're not going to go
anywhere and you're going to spend a lot
of time going nowhere. I hope this
helped and I hope you can uh not be
distracted by some of these foolish
marketing messages and uh make better
decisions. You if you want serious
results out of your body, there is
absolutely no getting away from heavy.
You have to strategically place the
heaviest possible loads through
musculature. By the by heaviest
possible, I mean heavy while still being
safe. And there are many strategies to
get higher loads through more muscle.
Variable resistance being the most
powerful of those strategies. But
without
significant heavy loading, and that's
relative to you, you're not doing
anything. And uh it's unfortunate and
it's easy to market doing jumping jacks
in your living room, but uh you just
won't get any results out of it. It's
just sort of a ridiculous endeavor. I
hope this helps. Put questions in the
comments. If you think I'm wrong, uh I'm
not. But if you do, you can certainly
try and argue with me in the comments.
Uh, I'm sure there is a guy out there
that got great results from one of these
things or at least thinks he or she did,
but for the most part, their before and
after pictures are just people dropping
body fat. Uh, you know, and it just
exposes the unex exercised body that
they had before, just the fat gets
reduced. So, hope that helped and uh,
argue with me in the comments. I'll see
you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. [music] We've got the
answer for you.